The night sky glowed a dark blue, the shallow stars shining through the light pollution like a thousand stars strewn across a dark blanket. We sat on the strip of concrete just outside the fence of my backyard, watching the moonlight reflect on the water before us. Lily had a glass pipe in one hand and a ziplock sandwich bag in the other, both brought expressly for this purpose. The dark feeling lurked behind my chest and my stomach knocked around like it was filled with buzzing insects.

We were mostly quiet as she broke up the nugs of weed and packed them into the small purple pipe. The air buzzed with insects and every so often we slapped at mosquitoes that nipped at our skin, hoping to suck our blood. I’d run around this lake so many times, having adventures with the neighborhood kids and chasing after my dogs, that it felt strangely blasphemous to be here, smoking weed for the first time.

I coughed on the first hit. As we passed the pipe between us, pulling the smoke into our lungs, the world gradually started to feel fuzzier, its edges softened by the relaxation that floated through me. I don’t remember what I said, but I began to talk and didn’t stop for half an hour, all of the emotions normally bundled and packed so tightly away in my brain now spread out inside of my consciousness. Connections danced and leapt between neurons and I laughed and smiled like nothing in my life had ever been wrong, understanding that it all made sense, even if I couldn’t make sense of it.

I had never known that life could be so blissful, even if it was just for a few hours with my best friend, sitting in the humid Florida night sharing stories.


I was in high school the first time I smoked cannabis but it wasn’t until I was in college that I found various pathways to getting it for personal use. The first few times were overwhelming — my initial experience with a bong was taking one rip and getting so high that my vision turned everything into triangles. I had to go lie down and nap for a bit to feel better.

I kept coming back because cannabis was the only thing that ever truly softened the constant pressure in my chest. It wasn’t until I was twenty-one that I realized I had anxiety and I was twenty-two when PTSD presented itself, so I spent a long time wondering what the hell was wrong with me. I didn’t have names to put on these things yet, but I knew that smoking a bowl always helped calm the intensity of my mind.

I’m from Florida and was so proud when we voted to legalize medical marijuana, but when dispensaries failed to open and edibles were the only thing allowed, it truly stunted the value of this medicine. If it wasn’t for cannabis, I probably would’ve turned to hard drugs just to deal with my symptoms, perhaps never even realizing I was covering up a larger mental health issue. I honestly might have even killed myself — when I look back on the extreme pain that it has helped me with, I can’t help but think I would’ve given in if not for cannabis.

When you spend every single day of your life in a battle between your instincts, your survival mechanisms, and your rational thoughts, there has to be some relief. And to this day, it is the only substance I have found that doesn’t stunt my mind and my emotions, but allows both to flourish in a safe, high, happy brain.


I moved to Colorado in 2017. Not just for the weed, as all the natives like to complain about, but to change the quality of my life and to be closer to the kind of nature that I love: the mountains. The legal weed is just a nice side benefit, something to keep me stable as I continue to grow as a human being. What I find interesting, though, is how cavalier everyone here is about it — it’s just a fact of life that some people smoke weed and some don’t. I like that attitude. Hell, even my current partner is a non-user, but is willing to go out of his way to find it for me if the need arises.

Since moving here, I’ve found that it’s much easier for me to control my anxiety. I’m able to live a happier, healthier life with a robust appetite and a way for me to connect with the people who mean so much to me. I’m not closed off in a state of paranoia, suffering from constant panic attacks that lead to eventual flashbacks. There’s no wall between me and the world — there’s just my perception, floating in this human suit, skeptical of its own nonsense.

Yes, cannabis is a gateway drug. For me, that gateway led to a better life.

